All right.
We've got frame 1 and 2 and 7 and 8 which are pretty much the same things if we hit the spacebar.
That's what we have so far and it's pretty amazing how much you can get from just two main key frames
there but there's more that we can do here.
So after frame two that foot that's on the ground here that really needs to stay on the ground.
But if we move to frame three look see how it's already pulled up.
So because of the interpolation between this key frame and this key frame frame three is pulled up a
bit.
So what let's do is let's grab that left foot right there and let's press control our control or vault
are and all gee let's do that.
Maybe we could move that up oh Right about here.
Let's see there.
Yeah.
We may want to move them up just a little bit more like that like this.
Down slide.
There we go.
And notice how the right foot is passing here.
I'm on the press control three again.
How it's passing by.
And that's good.
We want that.
I might rotate this just a bit like this.
Uh with these short stubby legs it's gonna be hard to keep the toe from crossing into the ground plain.
But I think that's gonna be okay.
It's gonna happen so quickly that I don't know that that's gonna be a problem per say but let's let's
give that a try.
So now we need that hips to come up just a bit.
So we've had it go down now we should have it come back up just a smidge like this and these arms I
think are actually pretty good.
They're pretty close to being what we need.
We could take this one and move it back just a smidge and then we could take this one and move it forward
just a smidge like that.
I mean come back to our rig tab here and choose in front so we can see the two controls on either side.
If you want to do that instead of switching back and forth I'm going to go ahead and keep it off just
because it cleans up the view.
All right.
So maybe with this I'll rotate this back just a bit like that.
Okay.
So let's see how this works.
One two three.
Yep.
OK.
That's that's actually pretty good.
Let's do the same thing over here at frame nine.
This foot is flat on the ground.
So on frame nine that should still be flat on the ground.
So let's press all are all G and get that flat on the ground there.
And I think we want to move it forward just a bit.
Let's click on frame three okay.
It looks like I've got the other foot back a bit like this Yep and maybe tilted or we're just a bit
like that okay.
And we need to bring up that hips control just a bit like that.
So click on three nine.
Well let's see it looks like I've got
yeah.
That should come down a little bit more like.
There we go.
We need to deal with the arms right.
So let's do that.
Let's bring this forward some control three and let's bring this arm back some right.
Let's give that a try.
Let's see how that works.
Get the spacebar
OK.
Here he goes.
All right let's go back to frame three and let's move forward again.
So if we move now up to frame for what should be happening here we've got the left foot here is on its
heel.
We've got that foot flat.
Got that foot flat again.
It's come up off the ground plain again on this frame but it's kind of doing what we want it to but
we have a special foot control to do this.
We want the foot to begin coming up on the toe right.
This is why we created that foot roll right here so let's take this and press old are all gee let's
move this back a bit Let's select that foot roll control right there and let's hit ah and roll that
up and that's what we want that foot beginning to roll up a bit like this we take that control and move
it back a bit Yeah I think something like that
and the other side should probably well we could tend to tilt it down and it's beginning to come forward
like this maybe and we want that hips control to come back up to about where it was at frame one in
fact I guess what we should do is just take that control that route bone key frame right there and just
press shift D and move it right there so let's try this
yeah.
So it goes down comes back up to where it was
OK so that's the same key frame as this went back here for the route.
Now for the arms on this this is probably going to continue to come forward like this control three
and this is probably going to continue to go back like that.
All right.
Let's see yeah.
Well that's what we want.
OK let's do that same thing now over here on frame 10.
So once again we've got to have the right foot now on the ground.
So we've got him on the ground here right.
I mean press control three and go round to this side.
We have it on the ground here.
We need it to stay on the ground on frame 10.
So let's press Alt R and I'll g.
And then we can put it right about here I guess select that put control hit ah and roll that forward
some maybe bring that back a little like this let's also take this one and oh now take a look at this.
So let me roll this back here OK.
I'm going to go over to the other side here.
Now as we go forward here we've changed the key frame on our foot roll here on frame for right here.
Well we had a key frame for that on frame one but we didn't have a key frame for it on two or three
so you can see it coming up off of that as we get to frame four.
Let's see where that is if I hit the period key we can go down and see that right there it'll frame
that up.
So here's that foot control.
But here right here is that foot roll so we have a frame here with the foot roll inactive and a frame
here with it active with it rolled forward so we need to add a key frame here maybe duplicate this key
frame shifty and move it up to here to hold that flat as you take the step.
Right.
And then it comes up at frame for in addition if we go out here and look at it here.
So that's ugly.
Let's go and select that foot control or foot roll again come down to the timeline hit the period key.
And here we are.
So what we should probably do is take this key frame and just duplicated again shift D and move it to
here.
So it's flat we'll need to do that with this one as well.
See how it's up like that.
If we select that foot roll here it is right here so let's press shift D and move that all the way over
there.
There we go.
Now that flattens it out.
So all we're doing is just making sure that things aren't activated don't begin moving until we want
them to.
So we have to sometimes duplicate a key frame to hold that position until it begin to move again.
All right so let's go forward to frame 10 and see how we're doing here we're not doing too bad.
Is that where we wanted to be.
Not really.
So we kind of want
this to be more like this.
Right.
When I click on frame for and it looks like we could take this and slide it back maybe move this back.
Let's try that for 10 or 10 not too far off
and we go.
Also we need to grab the hips key frame so we'll select the route.
Here it is right here.
Shift to and move it to there.
So that brings it up again right.
So we have frame one two three and four with the contact pose when the heel is contacting the ground
the down pose where the weight comes down as far as it's going to in the cycle we have frame three here
as it's coming back up.
We have frame four or the passing pose where one foot passes the other.
So with frame 10 we need to move those arms.
Now it looks like.
So we need to have the arms move back a bit
like this control three maybe move this forward is that right.
I think so.
Yeah.
Okay.
Now number five frame five.
We can call the up pose.
The up position because he's gonna be up as far as he's gonna be throughout the cycle but that foot
still needs to be on the ground that toe still needs to be barely touching the ground.
So let's grab the left foot here.
Let's press Alt are all G.
Put that on the ground.
Let's pull it back.
And let's choose that foot roll control and hit R and roll it up as far as it'll go.
There we go.
And then let's take the hips and move them up as far as they're gonna go.
So we don't want to break the limb like that.
We don't want it to bend backwards but we do want to be able to kind of bring it up like that.
Let's see if it's from here to here.
Yeah.
It goes up some.
That's good.
Let's see if we can move this back a little while we go and then this foot should probably come forward
like this.
We go let's take a look at this
okay.
All right.
So we have the contact down the passing pose and the up right here.
All right let's try and do the same up pose on the other side.
So at frame eleven over here let's try and do that same thing.
So I'm going to grab the hips right here and press shifty and move that over to eleven.
So it goes from ten up to eleven.
Let's put this on the ground.
Let's press all are all G.
Put that on the ground.
Let's turn this up.
The put control up as far as it'll go.
And then let's pull this back as far as we think it can go without it breaking without it bending backwards.
So about like that let's say.
All right.
Let's click on five OK.
That's where the foot is.
I'm gonna grab that and move it move it up turn it a bit was that
not bad like this should come back a little bit.
This should come up a little bit
all right.
Yeah.
We're getting there now.
The arms.
We could take this forward just a bit.
Well actually they're pretty good.
Let me see here in here
yeah.
They're pretty good.
I think the arms are OK.
All right well let's hit play and see what happens.
All right.
That isn't too bad.
I think what let's do now is let's choose all of these key frames right here this whole row I'm going
to click on the top one and I'm gonna move that out 13 and then what we put on 6 will be the same as
12.
So if we there we go that moves a little smoother I think.
Yeah I think that's OK.
I think that's pretty good.
So what let's do in the next video is let's go ahead and work on changing the expression of the face
over here in the 2D.
And then we'll have the run animation pretty much done.